# harvard.cs50.debug

## Usage

This plugin adds Cloud9 commands that allow execution of the debugger from the
command line.

### `{start,stop}debug50`

The `startdebug50` and `stopdebug50` commands try to allow the user to execute their
binary directly in a terminal window, but still connect the GUI debugger to the
running process without opening a new console window.

They use the existing run and debug system where possible, but provide an
extraneous process to satisfy their requirements. In particular, `run.gui`
normally expects a command to be executed, creates a new `tmux` session for it,
and opens a new console window showing that `tmux` session with a lot of chrome
describing the `runner` used to begin the process.

However, `run.run` allows us to run a command in a new `tmux` session and
expects us to display it to the user. We simply chose not to display it, since
the output of the executable is already being shown in the user's terminal.

The run system monitors this session for consistent state, so we get around the
issue by providing a process that effectively acts as a proxy for the process
we're running in the existing terminal. This "proxy" simply monitors the PID of
the GDB shim, and destroys itself within ~1 second of when the shim quits.

The internal state of the `process` object (and therefore the `run` and `debug`
objects) can then stay consistent.

Process management is therefore required for this to work. We create a process
in the shell, provide the PID of that process to `startdebug50`, which then
creates the "proxy" process to monitor it. If everything checks out, the plugin
sends `debug50` a `SIGUSR1` signal, which then uses that to start the shim
process.

This signal prevents starting the shim prematurely; for example, if the user
selects when asked that they do not wish to stop an existing debug process.

If the shim is begun, `stopdebug50` is called after debugging is complete, and
provided the same PID, to clean up the tmux session and `process` and `debug`
object state.

To use this, simply call `debug50`, which is installed in `~/bin` (and should be
in the `$PATH` by default):

```bash
$ debug50 BIN [ARGS]
```
